- [首页](../README.md "Java Interview Docs")
#### 个人介绍
- Hello, nice to meet you. My name is 【xxx】. I graduated from 【xxx】 in 2017 with a degree in Software Engineering.  
  After that I started my career as a Java Developer at the first company for 3 years. Then I joined 【xxx】and 【xxx】 as a Senior Full-Stack Engineer where I worked for around 6 years.  
  Till last year I decided to join the current company【xxx】for higher wages.

- Technically, I've spent many years working on designing and implementing multitudes of enterprise applications using Java, Spring, and many other common technologies. So I have lots of experience with distributed microservices systems.  
  In addition, I am also familiar with those mainstream frontend frameworks like Angular, Bootstrap, and React, which helps me work efficiently in a full-stack team.  

- Besides those technical skills, I’m good at communicating with different stakeholders, and one of my advantages is that I can always adapt to a new environment or a new team quickly.  
  Anyway, I’m very glad to have this opportunity for interview, Thank you for your time.

#### 项目介绍
- I'm from Department of Enterprise Digitalization  
  One of the most recent projects I've been working on is an intelligent digital assistant which is used internally by the company. Let's call it XiaoI.   
  The goal of this project XiaoI is to help our employees can access internal knowledge base and self services more conveniently and efficiently, users can interact with XiaoI by normal language.

- Technically, the system is built using Spring AI framework, with Kafka and Redis for messaging and caching purpose, and MySQL for persistence layer.   
  Basically, we set up multiple agents and orchestra them into several workflows for different scenarios, each agent is independent from each other and focusing on its own task, for example we have agent for intent classify, query rewrite, task execution, which made the system much more flexible.

- As for me, in this project I worked as the Tech Lead. I was responsible for the overall technical design and code implementations of key modules.   
  Besides that, my regular task also includes working closely with product managers and other team members to make sure the technical solution matches the business requirements.

#### 离职原因
1. 996，生病、丧假都不敢请假
2. 裁员+转签
3. 自费上班（显示器、椅子、插线板）
4. AI员工监控